# VANET-SYSTEM_Graduation-Project
VANET is a subclass of Mobile Ad-hoc networks (MANET) which belongs to a family of Wireless Ad-hoc networks (WANET). Talking of MANET, it is basically a self-organizing communication system that is not dependent on any infrastructure. Mostly it is used by the military. But nowadays it is becoming common. In simple way, MANET uses the same basic communication methodology just like blue tooth ad hoc network used for data sharing between the computers. The basic principle of VANET also is same like MANET. VANET system comprises of mobile nodes which are the sensors embedded in the vehicle, fixed infrastructure consisting of Road Side Units (RSU) (Shakya war and Tiwari 2016). RSU are the permanently installed units that works as a gateway for connection to the server or internet for getting information. The most vital service provided by the said network is the driving safety as road accidents are the 9th major cause of deaths. Moreover, according to the survey, most of the accidents can be avoided if driver gets the warning half a second before an accident.  VANET is serving the said purpose by sharing road safety and traffic analysis information through internet. According to Yong et al. (2016), the VANET architecture consist of vehicle and infrastructure components. Vehicle workings consists of the On-Board Unit (OBU) and the application that will be working for OBU to enable it to communicate. Moreover, infrastructure components consist of RSUs commonly connected to the internet.  In VANET, there are mainly two kinds of communication such as Vehicle to Vehicle (V2V) and Vehicle to Infrastructure (V2I) (Vijayakumar et al. 2016). V2V is a wireless communication between the vehicles whereas V2I is the communication between the vehicle and infrastructure. 
